Hey folks. Today's episode was
sponsored by Datadog it's. A
cloud scale monitoring and analytics
platform. Datadog was built to
bring clarity to complex dynamic
applications in the cloud, on
premises in containers or wherever
they run with beautiful dashboards,
distributed, tracing, and seamless integrations
with more than 200 technologies,
including Azure and Docker and
PagerDuty Datadog provides deep end
to end visibility into the
health and performance of modern
apps. Visualize key metrics, set
alerts to identify anomalies and
collaborate with your team to
troubleshoot and fix issues fast.
I'd like you to try
it yourself by starting a
free 14 day trial today,
listeners of this podcast will
also get a free Datadog
t-shirt get started at bitly.com/data
dog shirt. That's bitly.com/datadog shirt.
. Hey, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And today
I'm talking with Matt Phillips
from big evil corporation. And
how are you, sir? I'm
fine. Thank you. I am
freaking thrilled to talk to
you because as folks know,
I do a lot of
retro gaming. I'm looking at
my desk right here and
I see one, two, three,
four different different arcade machines.
I have a Sega in
the other room. I've gotten
into windows and super Nintendos,
and you're doing something interesting.
You have created a brand
new and original game for
the Sega mega drive or
the Genesis has people know
it on the U S
called Tanglewood, except you're releasing
this on a cartridge. You
got a successful Kickstarter and
you developed it in an
interesting way. You didn't write
this with modern tools. Yeah,
no old written with development
hardware, using original processes methodologies.
So being with the original
hardware, like, like the actual
developer device from Sega. Yeah,
it's a, it's a cross
product development kit. Who are
the manufacturers developed the hardware
at the time from 1990
to, Oh my goodness. Okay.
So what does that now?
20, how old is that?
26 years. Ish. Yeah, ish.
So my, my dad is
a, is a woodworker and
he has a whole woodworking
setup in his garage. And
he's got all these modern
tools and modern devices and
laser this and laser that
to, to go and work
with ancient techniques and stuff.
And every once in a
while there he'll watch a
show called the, the traditional
woodworker or whatever. And he'll,
he'll see them doing the
old style wood and the
old style stuff. And I'll
say, why don't you do
it like that, dad? And
he's like, you know, it's
impressive to watch, but it's
hard to do so. So
we'll use the modern tools.
How did the honest of
this, how did you decide
to not just write this
in modern tools with an
emulator? Why do it with
original tools? I guess that's
an authenticity thing. Something I
wanted to do since I
was a kid. So the
dream kind of never left
me. So when I decided
to finally do it and
I got the opportunity to
do it, I still wanted
to do it like it
was done when I was
a kid. Just sort of
try and live that dream
properly. So to speak. I
mean, when you say when
the opportunity, like, Did you
decide one day or did
something happen that I sent
it to you? I've been
trying to get into it
for, for many years. I
tried learning on an Amiga
Atari at the time. I
really couldn't get along with
it very well. It was
when I started working at
travelers tales about eight years
ago, some of the old
veteran mega drive programmers there
had got ideas into my
head. So you should really
follow up in the stream
is actually really easy to
do. Just, just give it
a go, just try it
again. And I did. And
after that, I, I started
scaring websites for this development
hardware, trying to put pieces
of the puzzle together, try
and get it. And the
thing came from all over
the world. So it wasn't
a day I woke up
and said, right, I'm going
to do this. Now. It
was, it was a couple
of years of looking for
the pieces for this equipment.
I'm slowly getting more and
more excited about the project
as more and more pieces
of it came in. And
you know, it was, it
was a slow brewing process
over many years. And just
for context, for people who
might not know what Traveler's
tales is, these are the
folks that make the Lego
games as, as including other
things. And we see that
T T logo, All of
our, our Lego games. So
you work there. Yeah. So
you used to Around for
forever as well. They started
in 1989. So while we
think of them, maybe modern
today is like Lego star
Wars. That's an animation studio
and a development company that's
been around for 30. Yeah.
And they started doing Amiga
games. I think their first
game was Leander back on
the Amiga. And they started
doing mechatronics came in after
that. And they managed to
acquire some large licenses, things
like Sonic 3d toy story.
They do a Mickey mouse
game. Yeah. They went from
there onto logo. So does
that mean that you had
like the help or the
assistance of, of original developers?
I don't know how old
they are now, but folks
that remember this stuff, it
was mostly inspiration. They used
to tell me stories about
that time work on the
maca drive and what it
was like back then, what
equipment they used, nobody sat
down and showed me the
ropes, so to speak. They
just gave me their stories
and it kept the stream
alive. So Yeah, it was
more inspiration. You didn't have
a tutor, you sat down
and you, how did you
learn this? Did you learn
this by reading 68,000 assembly
language manual? It was mostly
trial and error. I, I
managed to do some very
basic things, like move some
memory around and things like
that by reading some tutorials
and things like Amigos, but
most of it was just
trial and error. I did
manage to find some examples,
source code all the archives
from Sega themselves. Yeah. It
was quite a difficult thing
to piece together. There were
a lot of small demos
out there showing you how
to do small things like
hello world on the screen
and things like that, but
actually putting it together into
a big, fully fledged game
with various levels and big
backgrounds and stuff. It was,
it was very difficult to
do. I had to learn
most of that myself through
trial and error, reverse engineering,
things like that. So this
is, This is a tough
question, but maybe as a
software, developers will be able
to answer it. Do you
know if you did it
right? Like it looks amazing.
Tanglewood looks amazing. People are
calling it the new shovel
night. It's gorgeous. It's got
scrolling in multiple directions. It's
got multiple layers. It's got
rich sprites. The graph mean
it's gorgeous game. But do
you know, like given that
you learned it from scratch
kind of in a vacuum
that it was done in
the, in the way that
they did it back then?
I believe so. Maybe my
coding style might be a
bit different because I grew
up learning C and C
plus plus and all their
first work on games development
was with modern tech. I've
published games for PlayStation two,
three, and four, Xbox three,
six, Xbox one, that sort
of thing. And the, the,
the languages and technology is
very different now than I
learned on that. So I
tried applying some constructs from
modern programming back to assembly
language to see if things
like that would work. Things
like off-screen calling and things
like that and how a
memory is managed. And some
of it works. Some of
it didn't sort of, it
used too much memories. It
used too many clock cycles.
Cause obviously modern coding paradigms
are very different and we
used to bigger, bigger processes,
bigger processes, bigger, bigger memory.
So I don't know is
the honest answer to that
question. I don't know if
it was done exactly. Like
it was back in the
day. I know when you
use the correct tools, I
don't want to use the
correct language. I know if
you use the correct processes,
but don't, don't know about
my coding style. If it
matches, if it provides some
other examples, maybe, maybe I'm
looking at a, a mega
drive, hello world, Scroll that
you put up on Pastebin.
And so this is the
hello world scrolling around and
it says 466 lines with
comments. It's a non hello
world is not, not console
dot Rightline in this world.
You have full control. I
assume when you Okay. Mistake,
it just locks up hard
and you turn it off
and turn it on again.
Yup. Either that, or it'll
continue running as if everything's
fine, but there'll be some
subtle books somewhere that you
haven't seen. Those are the
worst. So that's, It means
you find out 30 seconds
later or Ms. Later. Yeah.
Minutes later, maybe right at
the end of the game,
when you're nearly finished the
final boss, you'll, you'll find
a book based on a
thing that was written to
memory an hour ago. Oh
no. Did that actually happen?
Yeah, that's happened quite a
lot in my career. Not,
not just on this console.
How in the, I mean,
how in the world do
you do that? I mean,
today we have debuggers that
can do, you know, snap
points and memory shots and
can compare comparisons across time
and even step back to
buggers. How in the world
could you know that you
a, you know, a butterfly
flaps, its wings and a
Sprite. I've corrupted it An
hour later. I guess it
got the advantage of the
hardware being a lot more
simple than modern devices. There's
only 64. Could I buy
a memory? I mean, if
worse comes to worst, I
could view up the memory
and I could scroll through
all 64 kilobytes of it
and have a look myself,
good point that there's tools,
the assembler dumps out to
show you areas of memory
that I belong to, which
parts it can even give
you the, the variable names
and the labels in it
too. So that, that there's
a lot that you can
do to try and figure
out books like that. It's
it's long and time consuming
still, but I'm not completely
alone there. Okay. Now I
could probably do this by
opening up notepad and figuring
out what 64 K looks
like. But I mean, if
you print it out 64
K and you were sitting
here, have you ever done
that? Have you ever printed
out all the pages of
64 K of memory And
stared at, on your, on
your living room floor? Not,
not physical printed now I've
had to open on various
screens, but no, the only
code I printed was back
when I was starting and
I needed to take some
time out and go and
set that aside to try
and figure out a problem.
Cause it was irritating me
so much. I needed, I
needed a change of scenery.
So you, you said I'm
gonna make a game and
you said, I'm going to
make a real true to
life. 16 bit platforming experience.
Where did you find the
original MegaDrives CD development kit?
Because I think that requires
another PC next to it.
That runs windows 95. Is
that correct? Yeah, it doesn't
have to run in windows
95. It only needs ms.
Dos for the debug to
run. And the only reason
I'm even using windows 95
is so it can have
network connectivity to backup my
work. That's one of the
constructs I'm using is, is
a modern source control and
backup systems. I'm not, not
making that mistake ever again
of not having those things
around. So yeah, windows 95
just for the networking part
so I can transfer files
around. But most of the
work is done in ms.
Dos, the, the assembler and
the Tupac. What limitations did
you put on yourself? And
which ones did you think
were like, like unreasonable. Like
you say that you did
it in the original tools
on the original hardware and
the original PC and the
original development kit. But did
you allow To Google? Yes.
I allowed myself to Google.
It was the only way
I can really get started.
Okay. The other big rule
I allowed to slip was
if I was going to
write my own tools, things
like level edits or things
like that, I was going
to do that on modern
hardware. I'm using visual studio
to write my own level
editor or your conversion tool,
things like that, or my
modern PC. Okay. That's because
I'm C plus plus development
tools back then were pretty
awful, pretty horrendous. And I'd
like to have written the
tools fairly quickly using construct
side I'm already used to.
So yeah, I did write
my own tools for the
job. That was one, the
rules are set herself, but
I did use modern PCs
to do that. Okay. That
seems like a reasonable compromise.
So I understand that you
created a, a level editor
or a maps tile sheets
system called beehive. Yes, it
did. And that's up on
GitHub at github.com/big evil corporation.
And that's been in development
now for a couple of
years, I can see that
you had check-ins two years
ago on that. So this
is a long process, A
long slow brewing tool. This
I added to it almost
every day. I, I don't
really stand alone anymore. I
run it through visual studio.
Cause there's always something I
need to add something I
need to change. It's it's
a very fluid tool at
one. Okay. So this isn't
something where you install it
and run it from the
start menu. It's something that
you are constantly hitting at
five and vs and then
saying, oops, I need this.
And then you go and
change it A five again.
Yeah. And data, I guess
one day it'll, it'll start
to mature. I can release
a version. One of it,
probably the end of Tanglewood
wants development's finished. I can
say yes, this, this tool
now has everything. I need
to write a similar game.
That's that's just generating executed
when we're done with it.
So we can go up
and look@yourworkshopsatbigevilcorporation.co.uk. And you can
see slides from a workshop
you did on Sega mega
drive assembly. And within those
slides, you know, you talk
about hello world and what's
involved, but then you jump
into sprites and tiles and
maps. Maybe you could explain
the relationship between the code
and where the resources live
and in the Sega world
are these forgive my dumb
question, but bitmaps on disk
somewhere or are they assembly
code as well? They are
somebody's code as well. All
the code and all the
data is boomed into one
binary. Well, I guess that's
the same for, for ms.
Task at the time as
well. You could put the
whole thing into a single
executable and there's no other
files to speak of. It's
all loaded in memory. When
the executable loads, there's a
similar construct for, for ROMs
on these kinds of systems
or the code, all the
data, all the audio is
all hung together in one
single memory blob and that's
low, different cartridge. Yeah. It's,
it's quite difficult to manage
something like that. In assembly
language itself, you have to
arrange your code and your
data to behave with each
other. And you have to
worry about things like memory
alignment, distances between blobs of
memories, tricky as well. Cause
there are certain op codes
that can data with a
short, from a short distance
away from the code. There
are some opcos I can
read data from all over
the cartridge. So depending on
particular optimization tricks, you're learning,
you have to arrange the
data in a certain way
as well. So it has
been quite a tricky thing
to learn that it's a
very rewarding. Oh wow. So
I did, you have to
write your own font. Like
you had to put in,
you know, the alphabet and
write and cry your font
and then store that. And
then remember where it was
so that if you were
putting a Sprite up and
then suddenly needed to put
up some words, you had
to think about where they
were in relation to each
other. Yes. Some data is
all stored as a rule
of tiles in the room.
So you'd have a label
to the star, the font,
there's no text drawing routines
at all. You had to
write the, all those yourself,
the systems that they have
an operating system. It doesn't
have any standard libraries. You're
just alone with the processor
and the memory. So you
have to do all that
yourself. You have to arrange
the font tiles onto the
map, grid yourself manually. When
you want to draw a
string. Oh, you said that
you're just alone with the
processor. Like it's been so
long. I think for a
lot of us that are
listening, who, you know, there's
no standard library. If you
want to grind, you know,
write a string length method,
that's on you. If you'd
need, if you need to
draw a circle programmatically, do
you even have a math
process or a way to
do co-sign you probably can't
do things like that. Nope.
It's a integers only 16
bit integers only. There are
only so much codes on
the thing that can do
32 bit mass. You, you
have 16 bit multiplication, division
30 to add subtract, things
like that. So, so you're
limited with even the integer
tool kits as well. So
no floating point must to
speak of, unless you want
to write your own software
method, but it's just too
slow to use up the
general purpose. Oh my goodness.
So how are maps done
if you have 64 hardware
sprites and you've got maps,
are you building maps with
kind of Lego pieces of
platforms and totem poles and
trees splits with tiles. There's
the Sprite layer, which is
useful things like characters and
moving objects and stuff like
that. But there's two background
layers with their own individual
maps. So you can have
two scrolling play fields behind
the sprites and that sort
of split up into tiles,
which are eight by eight
pixels, each split tool I've
got, you can import bitmaps
of large stamps. So big
pieces of steel scenery, things
like that. But once it
exports, it splits the whole
thing into tiles eight by
eight pixels searches for
to save memory and then
Paxil into a binary blob
for me. Hey friends, a
quick word from our sponsor
progress. Telerik wants to send
someone to the build conference.
So they're having a contest.
Step one is to sign
up, to learn about the
new Innovative, modern UI tools
that there'll be announcing at
build. And by registering, you'll
be entered to win a
full conference pass to Microsoft
build plus a $500 travel
stipend. They're also giving away
three Tellerik dev craft UI
licenses. All you have to
do is register at build
contest dot plop that's PW
O p.me. That's built contest
dot  dot me. Progress
offers the leading platform for
developing and deploying mission, critical
business applications, and that they
are the creator of the
award winning tellerik.net and Kendo,
UI JavaScript, user interface controls.
They have reporting solutions and
productivity tools and all the
tools that developers need to
build high performance, modern apps
without standing UI go now
to build contest dot
dot me that's PW, Oop,
dot me, and sign up
to win. One of the
things about Tanglewood that is
worth Pointing out is that,
you know, the, the little
Fox, what is the Fox?
Is the Fox have a
name them Nim. So Nim,
the Fox is running around
in this tangled wood. And
it's not a platform or
like a super Mario where
it's very perpendicular and there's
horizontal stuff and there's Vertical
stuff. You know, the, the
trees are, are warped and
tangled and he's not walking
just left. Right. He's walking
to the right and then
he'll move up A few
pixels. And then down a
few pixels and up a
few pixels did Something, something
simple like that quote unquote,
simple like that from a
design perspective, I would anticipate
would require a nontrivial amount
of work. Make it just
feel like he's fluidly running
over a for lack of
a better word, a Bezier
curve of a tree branch.
Yeah. Visit occurs. Right. That's
how they're described in the
editor. And then they get
converted to silos of their
own. I followed the same
process as the, the graphics
tiles. There are individual collision
tiles there, which are eight
by eight pixels. Each those
describe the terrain. Yeah. I
spent quite a lot of
time on the physics engine
and how all the train
systems work and collision things
like that and how they
will work together. Yeah. Did
people call them physics engines
in the early nineties? Like,
was that a thing that
we knew of and had
discovered, or is that a
modern concept apply to older
Your hardware? I'm not entirely
sure. There's only so many
examples I could look at
as well. If you remember
the game poker, that was
another Traveler's tales game that
had a physic system in
it's where you could pick
up objects, you could throw
them around and they would
bounce off each other. Things
like that object can be
marked as buoyant, photo, water,
that sort of thing. The
only other example I can
think of bear in mind,
I haven't played many games
that are non platformers. It's
the, the box pushing and
Sonic where you can push
the little green block, a
button. I think that's only
used once in Sonic quality,
which is a bit of
a waste really. There's been
times when you'll play a
game and they'll introduce a,
a concept and then you'll
never see it again. And
you're like, wow, that was
amazing. And they just kinda
never used it. That sucks.
Yeah. It was in the
second, second stage of Sonic
Kwan, the little green block
that you push on the
button. And I don't think
I ever saw her again.
Yeah. It's really weird. The
physics really are interesting in
Tanglewood, given that it was
that it's 26 year old
development system where, you know,
Nim will pick up one
of the little yellow balls
and roll it with him.
So then you've got to
think about him. You've got
to about to think about
something in his control and
they all need to work
together. And when he throws
it off of a allege,
it, it bounces it, it
moves realistically. So it's almost
like you say, modern techniques
applied Two older hardware. Yeah.
There's quite a lot going
on behind the scenes. Arguably
it was one of the
mistakes I made trying to
bring this modern construct, but
to consult like that, the
optimization of how to do,
to get that to work
properly within the frame rate
is, is absolutely ridiculous. Nearly
every optimization session I do
to try and make the
game run faster as always
been in the physics engine.
Really? Yeah. There's a lot
going on behind the scenes
as acceleration, velocities, friction, restitution,
the S specific bounce modes
for certain objects, those points
C, which I've had to
take out now, unfortunately there's
various gravity mode, so sure.
Inside water, it'll half the
gravity and half your movement
velocity. So it feels like
you're slogging through water and
there's quite quite a lot
going on and that's on
top of the collision for
all those curves and all
the train data. And as
you say, objects interacts with
each other. So yeah, if
Nim pushes one of the
little futsal balls, there's a
tether system there where it's
tethered to the player and
it'll, it'll make sure that
the bounding inboxes never collide
and one pushes the other
one out of the way.
So yeah, there's quite quite
a lot going on behind
the scenes and I'm, I'm
not sure I'll do another
game with a physics central
it's again, it's been an
absolute nightmare, but very much
worth it. I'm very happy
with, with what I've achieved
with it. Not to, not
to take too much time
to dwell on the negative,
but you, you mentioned kind
of casually there that you
had to remove buoyancy, is
that because it is just
technically too much for the
processor to handle It is
here. I wanted the futsal
to float and other objects.
There's things like crates and
the game there's balls that
you push around and they
all needed different points. He
values. And it meant trying
to fix bugs where if
there was a crate in
the water and a falls
in the water, they have
buoyancy applied. They're also colliding
with each other. You've also
got the other physics systems
running like the player, terrain
checks and stuff like that.
And the whole thing just
sort of fell over. Really
my frame rate was really
low. So I had to,
to change the puzzles that
included buoyancy and unfortunately removed
them. I notice that as
you move through the game,
the, the environment changes. There's
different. I don't know the
right word, cause I'm not
a game developer, but different
pallets. There's like dark and
scary and blue and purple
woods. There's bright and happy
and you know, light green
woods. Are you switching out
sprites or palette shifting? How
do you make it seem
like it's a lot wellbeing?
Not a lot. Yeah. It's
an interpolation between pallets. It's
not quite a pallet shift
or a pallet swap. There
are three pallets of play.
There there's a, a daytime,
a dusk and a night
pallet for each stage of
the game. And it, it
fades slowly for one pallet
to the author's view as
you move through the game.
So it's sort of a
linear interpolation between pallets. The,
the People are making these
games and making Sega games
now, and they usually need
to release them as ROMs
and people can run them
off On a, on an
emulator. You can go up
and go to big evil
corporation and go and Google
for Tanglewood. And you can
get a demo of a
version of this. Right? I
can play this on an
emulator, but you're what you're
doing is special because not
only did you use it,
Original mega drive development kit,
you're going to the work
of releasing an actual physical
cartridge. It, did they Even
make the, did you have
to design the black cartridge
bit? Or where would you
even find a second? Yeah.
Cartridge container anymore. I had
to send off some original
Sega cartridges off to a
toy shop in China to
have them analyze in three
D scanned. And they, they
helped me design one that
doesn't infringe on any patents
or trademarks, but, but still
work with the system. I
sent them over files of
my logos and things like
that. So we've now got
a nice cartridge that works
in all systems, pal NTSC
on the Japanese ones with
the locks, which has my
local on the backhand fits
standard PCBs. And that took
quite a while to sort
out there's a lot of
back and forth. A lot
of samples being sent a
lot of corrections made and
we finally had a mold
machine to, to mass produce
them. Wow. Cause it has
to look and feel and
act like a cartridge. It
needs to be able to
plug into my Sega, but
it also has to not
be an issue. Copy. Yeah.
Hey, can I'll say cause
logo on it. So yeah.
It's, it's the correct size.
The correct shape is even
the crap weight. That was
something I was adamant about.
But yeah, but with my
logo on will, This might
be a silly question, but
I've got a device that's
an emulator, not as Sega
proper and on an original
set. Yeah. But one of
these multi-card type situations that
is itself an emulator. If
I plug this in, will
it, will it work? Will
it download the rom or
would it need to be
updated to support Tanglewood? No.
The, the general rule is
if your system plays Sonic
too, it'll play town good.
There's no, there's no strange
tricks or demo scene style
techniques in there that might
trip up certain older or
poorly written emulators or clones
or things like that. The
idea was I wanted to
play on people's original consoles,
but also things like that.
Home arcade systems, running raspberry
pies or things like the
restaurant five, which is the
multi-car clone system compatibility was
high on the list. So
for this game, at least
I haven't used any or
tricks or anything that might
trip up those particular systems.
How did you watch for
that? Did you feel that,
you know, that, you know,
Oh, this is a trick,
I wouldn't notice that's a
trick or was it a
matter of doing something and
realizing it was, Yeah, it
was mostly already knowing that,
you know, what, what I'm
doing here is in quite
a standard fits it's very
timing dependent, or it uses
a weird, lesser used 68
K op code or things
like that. Or it abuses
something that isn't documented. There
was a demo scene group
called Titan who released it
released a Devo called overdrive
too. And they discovered a
hidden, deeper register in the
GPU, which allowed for operating
in various modes that were
non standard. And they figured
out how to abuse it
to, to make transparency with
which is something not seen
on the matrix. Then that
was absolutely fantastic. But they
found it only worked on
certain models of MegaDrives manufactured
within certain time spans. So
yeah, that kind of thing.
It fascinates me. It's fantastic.
I read up a lot
in that kind of stuff,
but it's not something I'm
going to put in my
games because I wanted to
work with everybody's mega drive.
It does also make you
wonder, like, what was it,
what was going on at
Sega that they would do
that? Were they just brainstorming
or where there's this, why
would you put a flag
in there or a debug
register and ship it and
not tell anyone and keep
it Yourself? I think it
was a mixture of unfinished
features. I'm with a discord
group of Sega developers who
have looked in detail at
this GPU and figured out
that Sega were trying to
do more with it, which
is probably why they had
the mega CD add on
later, which added a load
of features like scaling and
rotation. They believe that this
stuff was originally meant to
be in the mega drive,
but they either run out
of dire space or money
or time or a mixture
of all three and they
didn't make it. So I
guess some of those features
they started working on and
they were only accessible using
DBA registers, but obviously it
was never finished and it
doesn't work very well. Hmm.
And then you also had
to find someone to do
the printed circuit boards, the
PCPs to put inside of
the cartridges and put it
all together and then flash
flash the rom onto the
cartridges in a way You
could actually sell it. Yeah.
W I approached them to
call DB electronics out in
Canada, and it's not a
flash technology where using, we're
still using original five volt
EAP, ROMs, like would have
been used back in the
day, a nice heavy thing.
So we've managed to find
a cash of a thousand
of these in some warehouse
out in China, and we're
using all those up. Once
we ran out of those,
we're going to have to
think of something else, maybe
go for flash Bay based
method for the next patch.
So you're using original cartridges
that were discovered in a,
in a room somewhere, Just,
just the rum chips, the
PCBs themselves had to be
designed. So once you sell
a thousand, then you have
to figure out what, how
to get past that. Yeah.
I think someone else, An
interesting article on the DB
electronics Canadian website about the
issues around using five volt
systems and 3.3 volt flash
and how you can hurt
yourself. Yeah. That, that topic
comes up quite a lot.
Every time I post the
link to my games, the
first comment is this going
to be five off that
instead of 3.3 volts here?
Yes. Yes it is. For
the thousands time that that
article is certainly worth reading.
If you're a, if you're
into Homebrew development or collecting,
and you like to use
your original hardware, but I've
been using three, 3.3 volt
systems for development for nearly
three or four years now.
And I haven't seen any
problems with any of my
systems. So take it with
a pinch of salt. It
is a problem. He's proven
it to be a problem,
but we don't really know
the longterm effects of using
3.3 volts. We don't really
know what exactly is going
to happen if you do
currently using these things. And
how long is it going
to take for problems to
appear or even wearing the
machine? These problems are going
to appear that we don't
know I'm using five volt
chips just to be safe.
It's not a risk I'm
willing to take. Seeing as
this evidence has popped up
that something might go wrong
at some point in time,
some somewhere in the system,
maybe we don't know. Yeah.
The mass supports the problem,
but I don't think in
practice, anybody has seen anything
go wrong just yet. So
people can go to Tanglewood
game.com. They can download the
demo, which is a version,
a zero one Oh four,
five, and that kind of
an alpha build. And they
can try it out. And
if they like it, they
can click preorder now and
they can preorder this. What's
the, what's the pricing like,
and this actually comes with
a cartridge and a instructions
and manual. It's going to
look and feel like you
remember Sega drive In Genesis
games were 25 years ago.
Yeah. It's currently 45 plus
Fats, 45 pounds GBP. Obviously
the more we make the
cheaper it's going to get.
So maybe, maybe perhaps after
release, we might be able
to bring the price down
is quite an expensive thing
to do has been monumentally
difficult. And there's a lot
of people involved. So yeah,
this, the, the price is
the subject of much discussion.
Now that, that, that's what
it's costing us. So fortunately
we're not all 13 year
olds though. Now we, I
think if we're interested in
this, we're no longer 13
trying to put that money
together. In fact, we're supporting
an entire burgeoning industry of,
of retro gamers. And if
we can make Tanglewood successful,
then hopefully that will make
the next Tanglewood successful. That
is maybe written by someone
else. Yeah. I'm hoping. So
there's certainly other Homebrew projects
out there. There's one called
Xeno crisis, a smash TV,
like game. And they were
recently successful on Kickstarter too.
So yeah, if you keep
supporting things like this, where
we're only going to meet
more of them, that's cool.
So we can go out
and search for that as
well. They have a Kickstarter
as, you know, crisis, very,
very different game and certainly
something else that people could
support. So I'm excited that
I can use this on
my restaurant as well. So
people can take a look@thatattanglewoodgame.com.
Very cool. Well, thanks so
much for chatting with me
today, Matt Phillips from big
evil corporation. Thank you very
much. This has been another
episode of Hansel minutes and
we'll see you again next
week. .